The last topic I wanted to cover
is what you actually need to do to
deploy to the App and Play stores.
So you've finished building your app.
It's ready to be published.
What are the actual steps you need to
take to go from here to your end users?
The first thing you need is
to get a developer account.
So both Apple and
Google need a developer account, and
you have a choice between an individual
developer account and a business account.
If you sign up for a business you need to
provide additional information to prove
that you own the business.
So it's tempting to then use
individual accounts, but
something that you should be wary of is,
due to regulations,
if you charge for your apps,
either for downloads or
in app purchases,
then the address registered on your
account will be made public on the App and
Play Store pages.
And there's enforcement that you
basically have to use your legal address.
So it's kind of a pain for
individual developers if your
account is in your name.
And so, for example, on Google, when you
sign up for a Google Developer account.
So this is a one time fee of $25,
which is great to get lifetime access.
But when you sign up as
an individual developer,
you need to show your ID, so
your passport or driving license.
And also you need to prove your address.
So literally your rental agreement or
your mortgage.
And it takes a couple of
days to come back, and
this is the address that you use.
So then if you have
a paid app on Google Pay,
there's the address that will make public.
So this is something to be wary of.
So that's why if at all possible,
if you're going to charge for
your apps,
you need to use a company account.
So if you do any limited company,
then you can use a PO box, for example.
>> Kadi Kraman: For iOS, you need to sign
up for an Apple Developer Program, so
this is more expensive, and
it is a subscription, so
it comes with an annual $99 fee.
And the difference between Apple and
Google is, for Google,
you only need the account when you're
actually ready to publish to the users.
Whereas for Apple,
you need an account, as you've seen,
just to generate the certificates
to run on a physical device.
Next up, you need to create
the app that you want to deploy.
And one thing to note here is that
the app that you deploy to users is
actually a different format.
So it's signed differently.
But it's also a different,
more optimized file than the one
that you use for development.
So for EAS, I can actually do,
here's one I built earlier.
>> Kadi Kraman: So I've done a Play Store
build, so this is an example that I did,
so I've done an internal
distribution build for
Android and
I've done a Android Play Store build.
So this one, it lets me install it
directly, and actually if I download
it,
>> Kadi Kraman: You
will see that it is an APK file type,
whereas the Play Store build,
So this is what we deliver
to the Play Stores,
you see it doesn't actually
give me the option to
download on the device,
to install it on a device.
But then if I download it can,
it is an AAB format.
So AAB stands for Android app bundle and
it is something that you can't
directly install on a device.
And basically, what happens is
that you upload this to Google and
then Google generates APKs from it for
different device types.
So one thing that you notice
that this APK is massive, and
I think people who start building
Android apps, especially with Expo,
they'll be, no, my Android app is 100 MB,
that is terrible.
But this is not an accurate representation
of how large your app is going to
be in your end users, because firstly,
the optimized format is AAB,
and the actual,
downloaded size will be even smaller.
I think I have a page for
this, where I did a test,
so explore android app size.
Yeah, so I did a test for
this, so this was in SDK 50,
but the AAB was 27 megabytes, and
then when I uploaded it to Google Play.
The estimated download size was
actually closer to 11, 12 megabytes.
So you won't know how big your Android is
going to be until it's actually downloaded
to the end users.
So don't be terrified when you see
a very large APK during debug or
during development.
>> Kadi Kraman: And then it's the same for
iOS, so the internal distribution build
will be installable on a device, but then
the iOS App Store build completely isn't.
It is only for
submitting to the App Stores, and
you actually see, okay,
let me see what the next part was.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, and
then the next part is uploading
the production app to the stores.
Now, this seems trivial, but
for one of the platforms,
it is actually harder than you think.
So, let me show you what the Play and
App Stores look like.
So I just wanted to show you
the UI of Google Play Console.
So on Android,
if you're ready to release your app,
you would go to Google Play Console and
you would create a new app.
So in this case we will do, let's say,
Plantly, and we'll say it's an app,
it's free, yes, and we create it.
This is the minimal that you have,
so now I've created my app.
And then the first build that we do is, so
many options here,
it will be internal testing,
yes, you would create a new release, and
then from here,
>> Kadi Kraman: Right,
so this was the signing
key that we talked about.
So this one actually asks you if you
want to manage your own signing key or
use Google managed key.
So Google managed always.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, weirdly,
I've pressed this, but I think it's
doing something in the background so
it's not progressing.
There we go, it did work.
Okay, so now,
the first build that you do on Android,
you would upload your APK here manually.
So you would build it locally or
in EAS, download it, and
then from my Downloads,
you would upload your AAB to here.
And then you would make it public for
internal testing.
I won't go through the whole flow,
but this is how it would work.
For the App Store, you can actually
use EAS Submit straight away.
So there's two ways to
deploy to the App Store.
Well, actually three ways.
You can deploy via xcode.
You can use,
if you go to the Mac App Store,
there is an app called Transporter,
that's right.
There's a whole separate app just for
transporting your app to the App Store,
Transporter.
There it is, so this app and
literally all it does is that you'll
pull your app bundle on here,
and then it will publish against.
It will upload it to Test Flight
on your Apple Developer account.
>> Kadi Kraman: But you could do, eas, so
if I go to my test app
that I did this morning,
>> Kadi Kraman: plantly-test, so
you can do eas submit.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
this is a totally free service.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
So I want to do iOS, and actually you
can either submit from a local build or
from EAS, so if I select a build from EAS,
this was actually a build
that I built this morning.
So this was the one that we looked
at on EAS, so I'll do this.
It's making me log in to
my Apple Developer account,
checking that the bundle ID is registered.
And you can see that this actually,
it will create the app for
me on the App Store Connect.
So if I go to Apps, I have some
example apps here, but there we go, so
it's actually created this app for
me automatically the first time I submit.
And the name of this app will be the same
name that you use in your App.json.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
once you've done this for the first time,
now you can use the Transporter app if you
want to, or you can just use EAS submit.